ClassicEditionTools
===================

Intro
-----
Two small python scripts to convert SRAM saves (battery memory) between the format used by the NES Classic Edition stock emulator, and common emulators such as FCEUX.

This is quite trivial, the NES Classic Edition save files are just padded with zeroes, and prefixed with an SHA-1 digest.

I am sure there are better tools out there for achieving this, but I couldn't find them :) Let me know if there is other tool for this and I will happily link to that from here.


Limitations
-----------
* This DOES PROBABLY NOT work for SNES Classic Edition. For that, check out http://darkakuma.z-net.us/p/sfromtool.html 
* I am not sure this tool is needed if you run a custom emulator.
* You can use https://github.com/TeamShinkansen/Hakchi2-CE and FTP to download/upload the save.sram file to the NES Classic Edition.
* This DOES NOT change save states, only the SRAM.
* As always, if you load an save state after replacing the SRAM, the SRAM will be replaced by whatever was in the SRAM of the save state.
* Use at your own risk - always keep backups of your saves!


Requirements
------------
* Python 3
* SRAM file generated by NES Classic Edition ("save.sram"), OR SRAM file generated by other emulator such as FCEUX (e.g. "My game.sav").


Usage
-----
* python convert_sram_classic_to_common.py "inputfile" "outputfile" 8
    * inputfile: the path and filename to a "save.sram" file from an NES Classic Edition.
    * outputfile: the path and filename to a file to be used in most emulators, e.g. "name of rom.sav"
    * 8: the size of the output file in KiB. Often 8.
* python convert_sram_common_to_classic.py "inputfile" "outputfile" 32
    * inputfile: the path and filename to a file from a common emulator, e.g. "name of rom.sav"
    * outputfile: the path and filename to a "save.sram" file to copy to an NES Classic Edition.
    * 32: the size of the output file in KiB. Should be 32 for Legend of Zelda and StarTropics, not sure about others.


